---
id: running-on-device-ios
title: running-on-device-ios
---
<a id="content"></a><h1><a class="anchor" name="running-on-device"></a>Running On Device <a class="hash-link" href="docs/running-on-device-ios.html#running-on-device">#</a></h1><div><p>Running an iOS app on a device requires only an Apple ID and a Mac. This guide covers only React Native specific topics.</p><h2><a class="anchor" name="accessing-the-development-server-from-device"></a>Accessing the development server from device <a class="hash-link" href="docs/running-on-device-ios.html#accessing-the-development-server-from-device">#</a></h2><p>You can iterate quickly on device using the development server. First, ensure that you are on the same Wi-Fi network as your computer.</p><p>In Xcode, select your phone as build target and press "Build and run"</p><blockquote><p>Hint</p><p>Shake the device to open the <a href="/react-native/docs/debugging.html#accessing-the-in-app-developer-menu" target="">developer menu</a>.</p></blockquote><h2><a class="anchor" name="building-your-app-for-production"></a>Building your app for production <a class="hash-link" href="docs/running-on-device-ios.html#building-your-app-for-production">#</a></h2><p>You have built a great app using React Native, and you are now itching to release it in the App Store. The process is the same as any other native iOS app, with some additional considerations to take into account.</p><p>Building an app for distribution in the App Store requires using the <code>Release</code> scheme in Xcode. To do this, go to <code>Product -&gt; Scheme -&gt; Edit Scheme (cmd + &lt;)</code>, make sure you're in the <code>Run</code> tab from the side, and set the Build Configuration dropdown to <code>release</code>.</p><p>Apps built for <code>Release</code> will automatically disable the in-app developer menu, which will prevent your users from inadvertently accessing the menu in production. It will also load the JavaScript locally, so you can put the app on a device and test whilst not connected to the computer.</p><p>Once built for release, you'll be able to distribute the app to beta testers and submit the app to the App Store.</p><h3><a class="anchor" name="app-transport-security"></a>App Transport Security <a class="hash-link" href="docs/running-on-device-ios.html#app-transport-security">#</a></h3><p>App Transport Security is a security feature, added in iOS 9, that rejects all HTTP requests that are not sent over HTTPS. This can result in HTTP traffic being blocked, including the developer React Native server.</p><p>ATS is disabled by default in projects generated using the React Native CLI in order to make development easier. You should re-enable ATS prior to building your app for production by removing the <code>NSAllowsArbitraryLoads</code> entry from your <code>Info.plist</code> file in the <code>ios/</code> folder.</p><p>To learn more about how to configure ATS on your own Xcode projects, see <a href="http://ste.vn/2015/06/10/configuring-app-transport-security-ios-9-osx-10-11/" target="_blank">this post on ATS</a>.</p></div><div class="docs-prevnext"><a class="docs-prev" href="docs/linking-libraries-ios.html#content">← Prev</a><a class="docs-next" href="docs/running-on-simulator-ios.html#content">Next →</a></div><p class="edit-page-block">You can <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/master/docs/RunningOnDeviceIOS.md">edit the content above on GitHub</a> and send us a pull request!</p>