---
id: version-0.19-running-on-device-ios
title: running-on-device-ios
original_id: running-on-device-ios
---
<a id="content"></a><h1>Running On Device</h1><div><p>Note that running on device requires <a href="https://developer.apple.com/register" target="_blank">Apple Developer account</a> and provisioning your iPhone. This guide covers only React Native specific topic.</p><h2><a class="anchor" name="accessing-development-server-from-device"></a>Accessing development server from device <a class="hash-link" href="#accessing-development-server-from-device">#</a></h2><p>You can iterate quickly on device using development server. To do that, your laptop and your phone have to be on the same wifi network.</p><ol><li>Open <code>AwesomeApp/ios/AwesomeApp/AppDelegate.m</code></li><li>Change the IP in the URL from <code>localhost</code> to your laptop's IP. On Mac, you can find the IP address in System Preferences / Network.</li><li>In Xcode select your phone as build target and press "Build and run"</li></ol><blockquote><p>Hint</p><p>Shake the device to open development menu (reload, debug, etc.)</p></blockquote><h2><a class="anchor" name="using-offline-bundle"></a>Using offline bundle <a class="hash-link" href="#using-offline-bundle">#</a></h2><p>You can also pack all the JavaScript code within the app itself. This way you can test it without development server running and submit the app to the AppStore.</p><ol><li>Open <code>AwesomeApp/ios/AwesomeApp/AppDelegate.m</code></li><li>Follow the instructions for "OPTION 2":<ul><li>Uncomment <code>jsCodeLocation = [[NSBundle mainBundle] ...</code></li><li>Run the <code>react-native bundle --platform ios --dev false --entry-file index.ios.js --bundle-output iOS/main.jsbundle</code> command in terminal from the root directory of your app</li></ul></li></ol><p>The bundle script supports a couple of flags:</p><ul><li><code>--dev</code> - a boolean with a default value of <code>true</code>. With the <code>--dev true</code> flag, the bundled JavaScript code turns on useful development warnings and limits performance optimizations. For production it is recommended to pass <code>--dev false</code>. Also for production, be sure to have your native build configuration set to <code>Release</code> (e.g., Xcode's Release configuration for iOS and gradle's <code>assembleRelease</code> task for Android) in order to disable things like the shake-to-show developer menu.</li><li><code>--minify</code> - pipe the JS code through UglifyJS.</li></ul><p>Note that on 0.14 we'll change the API of <code>react-native bundle</code>. The major changes are: </p><ul><li>API is now <code>entry-file &lt;path&gt;</code> based instead of url based.</li><li>Need to specify which platform you're bundling for <code>--platform &lt;ios|android&gt;</code>.</li><li>Option <code>--out</code> has been renamed for <code>--bundle-output</code>.</li><li>Source maps are no longer automatically generated. Need to specify <code>--sourcemap-output &lt;path&gt;</code> </li></ul><h2><a class="anchor" name="disabling-in-app-developer-menu"></a>Disabling in-app developer menu <a class="hash-link" href="#disabling-in-app-developer-menu">#</a></h2><p>When building your app for production, your app's scheme should be set to <code>Release</code> as detailed in <a href="docs/debugging.html#debugging-react-native-apps" target="_blank">the debugging documentation</a> in order to disable the in-app developer menu.</p><h2><a class="anchor" name="troubleshooting"></a>Troubleshooting <a class="hash-link" href="#troubleshooting">#</a></h2><p>If <code>curl</code> command fails make sure the packager is running. Also try adding <code>--ipv4</code> flag to the end of it.</p><p>If you started your project a while ago, <code>main.jsbundle</code> might not be included into Xcode project. To add it, right click on your project directory and click "Add Files to ..." - choose the <code>main.jsbundle</code> file that you generated.</p></div><div class="docs-prevnext"><a class="docs-next" href="embedded-app-ios.html#content">Next →</a></div>