docs/HandlingTextInput.md, before:

---
id: handling-text-input
title: Handling Text Input
layout: docs
category: The Basics
permalink: docs/handling-text-input.html
next: handling-touches
previous: flexbox
---

[`TextInput`](docs/textinput.html#content) is a basic component that allows the user to enter text. It has an `onChangeText` prop that takes
a function to be called every time the text changed, and an `onSubmitEditing` prop that takes a function to be called when the text is submitted.

For example, let's say that as the user types, you're translating their words  into a different language. In this new language, every single word is written the same way: 🍕. So the sentence "Hello there Bob" would be translated
as "🍕🍕🍕".

```ReactNativeWebPlayer
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { AppRegistry, Text, TextInput, View } from 'react-native';

export default class PizzaTranslator extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {text: ''};
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <View style={{padding: 10}}>
        <TextInput
          style={{height: 40}}
          placeholder="Type here to translate!"
          onChangeText={(text) => this.setState({text})}
        />
        <Text style={{padding: 10, fontSize: 42}}>
          {this.state.text.split(' ').map((word) => word && '🍕').join(' ')}
        </Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

// skip this line if using Create React Native App
AppRegistry.registerComponent('AwesomeProject', () => PizzaTranslator);
```

In this example, we store `text` in the state, because it changes over time.

There are a lot more things you might want to do with a text input. For example, you could validate the text inside while the user types. For more detailed examples, see the [React docs on controlled components](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/forms.html), or the [reference docs for TextInput](docs/textinput.html).

Text input is probably the simplest example of a component whose state naturally changes over time. Next, let's look at another type of component like this one that controls layout, and [learn about the ScrollView](docs/using-a-scrollview.html).

Commit message:

Retry for #14830 - Fix "Handling Text Input" tutorial's "next" within text
Summary:
Retry for https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/14830.

There was some problem with the import and hramos instructed to open a new PR with the same changes. See https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/14830#issuecomment-315146320 for more details.

-----

The tutorial pages tend to have a "follow to the next topic" section at the end of the text.

HandlingTextInput.md has handling-touches in the "next" in metadata, but the "follow to the next topic" section linked to ScrollView tutorial page. Thus, the "follow to the next topic" section in the text is updated also to point to handling-touches.
Closes https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/15176

Differential Revision: D5480608

Pulled By: hramos

fbshipit-source-id: 5161d1acad6a3f0401fd5d15d5ff29a0701a1211

docs/HandlingTextInput.md, after:

---
id: handling-text-input
title: Handling Text Input
layout: docs
category: The Basics
permalink: docs/handling-text-input.html
next: handling-touches
previous: flexbox
---

[`TextInput`](docs/textinput.html#content) is a basic component that allows the user to enter text. It has an `onChangeText` prop that takes
a function to be called every time the text changed, and an `onSubmitEditing` prop that takes a function to be called when the text is submitted.

For example, let's say that as the user types, you're translating their words  into a different language. In this new language, every single word is written the same way: 🍕. So the sentence "Hello there Bob" would be translated
as "🍕🍕🍕".

```ReactNativeWebPlayer
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { AppRegistry, Text, TextInput, View } from 'react-native';

export default class PizzaTranslator extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {text: ''};
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <View style={{padding: 10}}>
        <TextInput
          style={{height: 40}}
          placeholder="Type here to translate!"
          onChangeText={(text) => this.setState({text})}
        />
        <Text style={{padding: 10, fontSize: 42}}>
          {this.state.text.split(' ').map((word) => word && '🍕').join(' ')}
        </Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

// skip this line if using Create React Native App
AppRegistry.registerComponent('AwesomeProject', () => PizzaTranslator);
```

In this example, we store `text` in the state, because it changes over time.

There are a lot more things you might want to do with a text input. For example, you could validate the text inside while the user types. For more detailed examples, see the [React docs on controlled components](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/forms.html), or the [reference docs for TextInput](docs/textinput.html).

Text input is one of the ways the user interacts with the app. Next, let's look at another type of input and [learn how to handle touches](docs/handling-touches.html).
