docs/UsingAScrollView.md, before:

---
id: using-a-scrollview
title: Using a ScrollView
layout: docs
category: The Basics
permalink: docs/using-a-scrollview.html
next: using-a-listview
previous: handling-touches
---

The [ScrollView](docs/scrollview.html) is a generic scrolling container that can host multiple components and views. The scrollable items need not be homogenous, and you can scroll both vertically and horizontally (by setting the `horizontal` property).

This example creates a vertical `ScrollView` with both images and text mixed together.

```ReactNativeWebPlayer
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { AppRegistry, ScrollView, Image, Text } from 'react-native';

export default class IScrolledDownAndWhatHappenedNextShockedMe extends Component {
  render() {
      return (
        <ScrollView>
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Scroll me plz</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>If you like</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Scrolling down</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>What's the best</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Framework around?</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:80}}>React Native</Text>
        </ScrollView>
    );
  }
}

// skip these lines if using Create React Native App
AppRegistry.registerComponent(
  'AwesomeProject',
  () => IScrolledDownAndWhatHappenedNextShockedMe);
```

ScrollViews can be configured to allow paging through views using swiping gestures by using the `pagingEnabled` props. Swiping horizontally between views can also be implemented on Android using the [ViewPagerAndroid](docs/viewpagerandroid.html) component.

A ScrollView with a single item can be used to allow the user to zoom content. Set up the `maximumZoomScale` and `minimumZoomScale` props and your user will be able to use pinch and expand gestures to zoom in and out.

The ScrollView works best to present a small amount of things of a limited size. All the elements and views of a `ScrollView` are rendered, even if they are not currently shown on the screen. If you have a long list of more items that can fit on the screen, you should use a `FlatList` instead. So let's [learn about list views](docs/using-a-listview.html) next.

Commit message:

Added missing information
The example will not work as is.  Who ever tries this needs to add img directory to AwesomeProject and favicon.png icon in it.  This is simple issue but for absolute beginer is no go.

docs/UsingAScrollView.md, after:

---
id: using-a-scrollview
title: Using a ScrollView
layout: docs
category: The Basics
permalink: docs/using-a-scrollview.html
next: using-a-listview
previous: handling-touches
---

The [ScrollView](docs/scrollview.html) is a generic scrolling container that can host multiple components and views. The scrollable items need not be homogenous, and you can scroll both vertically and horizontally (by setting the `horizontal` property).

This example creates a vertical `ScrollView` with both images and text mixed together.  Note that this example requires an img directory in AwesomeProject project and an favicon.png image in that directory.

```ReactNativeWebPlayer
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { AppRegistry, ScrollView, Image, Text } from 'react-native';

export default class IScrolledDownAndWhatHappenedNextShockedMe extends Component {
  render() {
      return (
        <ScrollView>
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Scroll me plz</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>If you like</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Scrolling down</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>What's the best</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:96}}>Framework around?</Text>
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Image source={require('./img/favicon.png')} />
          <Text style={{fontSize:80}}>React Native</Text>
        </ScrollView>
    );
  }
}

// skip these lines if using Create React Native App
AppRegistry.registerComponent(
  'AwesomeProject',
  () => IScrolledDownAndWhatHappenedNextShockedMe);
```

ScrollViews can be configured to allow paging through views using swiping gestures by using the `pagingEnabled` props. Swiping horizontally between views can also be implemented on Android using the [ViewPagerAndroid](docs/viewpagerandroid.html) component.

A ScrollView with a single item can be used to allow the user to zoom content. Set up the `maximumZoomScale` and `minimumZoomScale` props and your user will be able to use pinch and expand gestures to zoom in and out.

The ScrollView works best to present a small amount of things of a limited size. All the elements and views of a `ScrollView` are rendered, even if they are not currently shown on the screen. If you have a long list of more items that can fit on the screen, you should use a `FlatList` instead. So let's [learn about list views](docs/using-a-listview.html) next.
